1. Read the given MP3 file and get the samples and sampling frequency using command [y fs] =
audioread(f ilename);.
i. Plot for 2 sec with respect to the sampling frequency (fs).
ii. Convert the samples in vector (y) to matrix (Y ) by using command reshape();
iii. Convert the following in to the wav file using command
audiowrite(f ilename, desired samples, sampling frequency);
iv. Play audio by using sound(variable, samplingfrequency);
2. Read the image given using I = imread(f ilename) command.
i. Separate Red, Green and Blue pallets from the image and show them using imshow(variable);
ii. Convert the color image to gray scale image and observe the difference between the pallets and
gray scale image.
iii. Convert the image samples from matrix in to vectors using reshape();
iv. Resize your image in to your intended dimensions using imresize();
3. Read the given MP4 video file using V = videoreader(f ilename);
i. Calculate the number of frames received in the variable.
ii. Collect the frames up to 2 sec duration and convert them back to the avi video using
videowriter(), readF rame() and writeV ideo().
iii. Convert the each frame in to column and store it another variable and show it as image.

4. Read the passage given in the excel sheet using [numstr] = xlsread(f ilename) and convert it in
to the ASCII values using char() and double(). Now by reordering array of ASCII values in to
matrix of your dimensions and convert in to image.
5. Convert the audio samples of first 3 sec extracted in 1 (a) to the ASCII values using num2str(),
char() and double(). Finally reshape the array of ASCII values and convert it to image.
6. Take the 2 sec audio samples and compute the floor, ceil and round and find the error between
the original 2sec audio samples and resultant samples of floor, ceil and round.
7. Perform the block convolution:
i. Read the audio signal (‘Signal P rocessing Audio.mp3’).
ii. Extract the signal for 5 sec duration (estimate the length of the sequence) and considered it as
x(n).
iii. Now, Calculate the outputs for the given impulse responses h1(n), h2(n) of length 61 each

(stored in .mat files h1, h2) using Overlap-add method (Divide the input signal x(n) into mul-
tiple blocks with each size of 512).
